After watching this video, you'll be able to discuss some anti-patterns to avoid
when practicing scrum, and describe a checklist for measuring a healthy scrum
team. So, let's discuss some anti-patterns. The first one is no real product
owner. And I've seen this happen on a number of teams where nobody's really sure
who the product owner is. There are a couple of people who seem to be in charge,
uh, but clearly one person with a vision, uh, you know is not present. The other
opposite I've seen is multiple product owners. I've been on scrum teams where
there were two product owners and they didn't always agree on what to build.
These are anti-patterns. There should be a clear person who's playing the role
of product owner, who's the visionary for the team, who's setting the vision,
and leading the team. Very, very important. Then if the teams are too large, you
don't want to have, you know, 20-30 people on a team. They should be less than
10. We say, you know, five plus or minus two or seven plus or minus two. You
really don't want to have large teams because that is an anti-pattern, uh,
because communications becomes too hard at that point and then the teams are not
dedicated. I've seen this happen multiple times. People are on multiple
projects. You're in the daily stand-up and you say, What did you do yesterday?"
and "Oh, yesterday, my manager pulled me off to work on another project."
Clearly, that is an anti-pattern. You know that is a recipe for disaster. So,
you want to make sure that if that's happening on your teams, your teams are not
going to be successful. If the teams are too geographically dispersed... I
realize we work in international companies all around the world, you know, my
recommendation is put at least two people in a geography, in a time zone, so
they can collaborate together, um, but it really works best when all the teams
are together in one time zone, one geography. And then if your teams are siloed,
you know, the team should be working as one cross-functional team. I shouldn't
have to open tickets with other teams to get things done. Everything I need
should be on that one team so that's very, uh, important. And then teams are not
self-managing. The teams are not being told what to do, right? They're not being
given stories to work on. The stories are in the backlog and they pick the next
highest story off the backlog and they assign it to themselves, right? They're
self-managing. It's critically important for the health of a scrum team. If you
do these things you will fail. You should not wonder why you failed. You know
you were implementing all the anti-patterns. So, let's talk about some health
check items that you can look at and make sure that your team is healthy. One of
them is that everybody is accountable. Scrum master, product owner, team
members, uh, you know, they all are accountable for what they do. They all feel
ownership and what they're delivering, uh, and when something goes wrong
everybody chips in to make sure things happen right. So, they should all
understand what their role is and act on that role.  The second is that you're
working in small sprints. Uh, if you're working in sprints that are a month
long, two months long that's just too big. You need... you need to be organized
around one or one to two weeks, two or four-week sprints. I don't like four
weeks. I really like two-week sprints. Some people do one-week sprints. There's
an ordered product backlog. This is key, right? If you go in and look at the
backlog and it's not ordered you know things are in disarray and the stories
don't have enough information for anybody to know what's going on. That's an
indication that things aren't exactly healthy. Then, is there a sprint backlog,
right? That you could visualize the remaining work. That's why we use a kanban
board, right? So, we have these things in the backlog. We can look at them and
very quickly and easily understand what is the work that's remaining in this
sprint? What is the work that has has yet to be done? And then at sprint
planning and forecast, a sprint backlog and a sprint are created. Teams should
not be working without a backlog.  Teams should not be pulling off the product
backlog. You really want to organize around a goal for the sprint and all the
stories for that sprint are in that sprint backlog. The results of the daily
scrum results in planning work or replanning work so maybe, you know,
something's not going as planned, you need to shuffle some stories, you need to
add more people to a story. You need to get somebody help, uh, and maybe, you
know, you replan as a result of that. So that's very, very important.  No later
than the end of the sprint, you've got it done increment, right? You don't want
to have sprints where there's nothing to deliver. In the beginning, it's really
hard to do this but once you get going there should be some new functionality
that you're adding every two weeks that you can be, uh, you can demo and be
accountable for. And then the stakeholder's offering feedback. I can't stress
enough how critically important this is. The whole idea of delivering early and
often is so that the stakeholders can look at it and they can offer you feedback
and then you could decide whether you need to change the plan or change the
product or change whatever direction you're going in. So that stakeholder
feedback is very valuable. If you have sprint reviews and the stakeholders
remain silent, not healthy. Not healthy. They really need to be speaking up and
saying whether they like it don't like it, The product backlog is updated as a
result of a sprint review, so when you do the review you may come up with new
stories. You came up with new ideas, uh, you may decide that something should be
implemented a little differently and so at the end of that review you go in and
you add these new stories to the backlog, right? You want to take that feedback
that the stakeholders giving you and add that to the sprint backlog so that
becomes new stories that you could implement for your stakeholders. And then the
product owner, the development team, the scrum master, they're all aligned on
the work in process, right? So they know what's going to happen for their next
sprint, uh at the sprint retrospective. You want to make sure everybody
understands what went well, what didn't go well, what should we keep doing, what
should we stop doing, and get alignment, so that in the next sprint, we do even
better, right? We incrementally improve. In this video, you learned
anti-patterns to avoid when practicing scrum, no real product owner, teams are
too large, teams are not dedicated, teams are too geographically dispersed,
teams are siloed, teams are not self-managing. The scrum health check provides
guidelines for measuring a healthy scrum team.