After watching this video, you'll be able to explain the process of backlog
refinement, describe how to run a backlog refinement meeting, and triage new
issues on the kanban board. So, if we go back to the steps in the scrum process,
this time we're just looking at backlog refinement. What do we do during the
backlog refinement meeting? We're ready to have our backlog refinement meeting
and do backlog refinement. So, this is the process of taking the backlog and
ranking it, right? You want to rank it in priority order so that the most
important things are at the top of the backlog. Then we break down larger
stories into smaller ones. We make sure that all the stories that are near the
top are small enough to fit in a sprint. Then, finally, we make sure the stories
near the top have enough detail that a developer can just take them and start
working on them once we put them in a sprint plan. Now the backlog refinement
meeting itself... Who should attend? Well, the product owner is the key person.
They're the person who should be writing the stories. They don't always write
the stories, but the product owner has the vision and the product owner should
be creating stories that the team will work on. So, they need to be there. The
scrum master is another person you would invite to the backlog refinement
meeting because the scrum master is going to assist the product owner in
refining that backlog. Then the development team is optional. I usually like to
take maybe a development lead or architect and have them in there just to answer
technical questions. How hard is this? Where should we rank this? Sometimes it's
not a business decision, there's the technical dependencies that you need to
know. I do not have the whole development team, the whole scrum team there. That
would be a waste, in my estimation, a waste of their time. I just want to have
one or two technical people to help out. So, what's the goal? Well, the goal is
to have a ranked backlog, right? The goal is to have this backlog, this product
backlog, that's ranked in order of importance. So, the thing at the top is the
most important. I know a lot of product owners have trouble with this. Well,
everything's important, they say. Okay, but there can only be one 1 and one 2
and one 3. So, what's the most important? Put that one at the top, then the next
important, the next important. It really helps you kind of focus on your
business goals and what's valuable to your business, and then make sure that the
story contains enough information so that developers can then take that story
and put it into a sprint. You don't want to be adding detail during the sprint
planning meeting. In the sprint planning meeting, which comes next, you're going
to want to describe the stories and have the developers understand them, but you
don't want to do a lot of typing in that meeting. So, the more you can do in
this backlog refinement meeting to make the story sprint ready, the better off
you're going to be and the faster your planning is going to go. So, if we look
at our kanban board, we've cleared out the new issues, we've got one story in
the icebox, three stories in the product backlog, so we don't have to worry
about anything but those three columns for now. We've got some things in the
icebox and some things in the backlog but, wouldn't you know it, those pesky
customers, they have been writing more issues. It always happens. So, they've
added a couple of new ones since we had the last backlog refinement meeting,
"need the ability to remove a counter," oops, we've got that one, right? and
"deploy the service to a cloud," somebody wants to deploy to the cloud. So, this
happens all the time. That's why it's called new issues. New things are coming
in, new requirements, and so one of the first things I like to do in my backlog
refinement meeting is to deal with that. I call this new issue triage. What you
want to do is start with the new issue column. I know you want to refine that
product backlog but constrain yourself, look at the new issue column. You want
to make that empty, right? You want to make sure that at the end of the backlog
meeting there's nothing in the new issue column because there might be something
really important that ought to be done in the next sprint. So, you kind of have
to look at the new issues and understand: Is there something that we might want
to put right at the top of the backlog or not? Or are there things that we'll
put and we'll get to eventually? Put them in the ice box. It's really important.
The goal is to have that new issue column empty when I do new issue triage.
Remember, that's my inbox. I want my inbox to be emptied out at every backlog
refinement meeting. So, what do we do? We take the story, some new issues, and
we decide: Do we move them to the product backlog? Is this something we're going
to do maybe in the next sprint, a spring from now, two sprints from now?
Depending on how deep your product backlog is, depending on what your criteria
is, for putting something in the ice box as opposed to putting it in the product
backlog. If it's something I'm not going to work on for a while, then maybe I
put it in the ice box and say, "You know, that's a great idea. It's not our top
priority. I'll put it in the ice box and we'll deal with it in a future sprint."
Or you might say, "You know, this isn't where this product is going." I just
reject it out of hand. This is something we're never going to do. It's not in
our wheelhouse. So, you reject it, but that's what you want to do with these new
issues. They're either going to the product backlog, [if] they're longer term
you put them in the icebox or they're just not something that you feel you want
to take on, and then you reject them out of hand. So, now let's do this. We look
at the first one "need the ability to move the counter." I say, "You know,
that's something that we might do eventually but we don't even have multiple
counters yet." I don't want to remove the one and only counter, so I move that
one into the ice box. Then I look at "deploy servers to the cloud" and say, "You
know, maybe we should do that sooner rather than later. In fact, I want to do
that before we have the ability to reset a counter.  You know, once we get this
deployed, and we get some persistence, let's go put it up in the cloud, right?"
So, now I've made a decision. I've got that new one in the product backlog and
I've got the other one in the icebox. So, let's look at the workflow for backlog
refinement. The product owner is taking these stories and they're putting them
in the backlog in order of importance, right? Taking things that they thought
weren't important that might become important and shift them around. The
items... we might provide estimates, at this point. The reason why I would do
estimates? So, sometimes you save estimates until you do sprint planning because
those are the real estimates of the plan but, you know, it's kind of nice to
know how many story points are in my backlog. Even if it's a gross estimation,
you know a rough order of magnitude. So, sometimes we will assign story points
in the backlogs. We kind of see how big is the backlog, how many story points
are in there, and then when we put them in the plan. We refine them. We get the
team to agree, was that really a medium? Or they might say, you know, that's
really a large but at least I get some estimate in there. So, you might want to
do that. Then the large vague items, they have to get split up, right? Vague
items have to be clarified. Large items have to be split up into smaller items.
The goal here is to make the stories, what I call sprint-ready. They are ready
to put in the sprint and I don't have to spend a lot of time during the sprint
planning meeting adding any details. Something may come up in the meeting where
a developer might ask a question and you document that question in the
assumptions, but for the most part from what we know now, at the backlog
refinement meeting, I want to make sure these are sprint-ready. So, let's use
this complete story template. We talked about the beginning of it. As some role,
I need some functions so that I get some business value. But now we want to go
back and we want to add acceptance criteria, anything we might know and we want
to add the definition of done using the Gherkin syntax. When, you know, given
some precondition when some event happens then I see some measurable outcome.
So, let's go do that. So, let's take this first item on the product backlog at
the top. We look at it, it says as a user story I need a service that has a
counter so I can keep track of how many times something was done. You'll notice
there's a couple of annotations on the side when you open up ZenHub. You see the
webpage, it'll have that it's currently not assigned. It has no labels. It has
no milestones. It has no estimates. That's how all the stories start out. We're
going to ignore those for the moment and we're going to embellish the story a
little more. So, what are some of the assumptions? Well, the assumptions need a
way to increment the counter. So, maybe when we've got this counter, I have to
be able to increment it and maybe I want to do that in one step.  Maybe I don't
want to do a get, and then a read, and then an increment, and then a put. Maybe
I just want to have an increment function that says, "Hey, in one atomic
transaction, increment that counter and I need a way to get the current value,
right? So, a way to increment it, a way to get the current value, I should be
pretty good to go. So, now I write my acceptance criteria. Given I have
incremented the counter to 2, when I make a call to get the counter then it
should return 2 is the counter value, right? You can write a couple of these.
You can think of these scenarios that gives the developer the acceptance
criteria that says, "This is the behavior we want the counter to have." In the
next video, we're going to take a look at how to add labels to our stories. In
this video, you learned that it's the product owner's responsibility to maintain
a groomed backlog and you start refinement by triaging new issues.