After watching this video, you'll be able to define story points, describe
considerations for assigning story points, and estimate story points on a
relative scale. So what are story points? Story points are a metric used to
estimate the difficulty it is to deliver and implement a user story. The key
thing is that this is an abstract measure. And that's what people get hung up
on, people have a hard time dealing with the abstractness of it. But it's very,
very important that you understand this so that you don't fall into one of the
anti patterns. So what goes into that estimate? Well, there's a couple of
components. First, is the effort, right? How hard is it to do? Then there might
be the complexity, right? Is it very complex? Is it very easy? You could have a
lot of effort for something that's easy to do, but it's just boring and
laborious. And you have to go off and do it.  It might not be very complex. But
then there's uncertainty. Have you ever done this before?  Right, maybe if
you've never done it before, you rate the story points a little bit higher,
because there's more uncertainty, you really don't know how complex it is. So
it's a trade off between what you know, and what you don't know. So
traditionally, humans are really really bad at estimating wall clock time.
Remember, we love to see those dates go wooshing by, we commit to something and
then we miss it, right. And then we learn that the only thing that takes 30
minutes is 30 minutes, everything else takes longer. So it's really really
difficult for humans to say, this is going to take an hour, this is going to
take, this is going to take a week. And so we don't do that. If we're not very
accurate at predicting that way, let's not predict that way. So instead, we use
t shirt sizes, story points are t shirt sizes. Is it a medium story, a small
story, a large story, an extra large story. We just want to give a relative
value of how big this thing is, so that we can just compare it with other things
that are in the current sprint. But because we can't add up s m l and get a
number. And we want to use numbers to track velocity, which is something the
number of story points that we can do at a sprint. Most tools, we use a
Fibonacci sequence.  I never use all of the numbers in the sequence, what I
recommend is five is a medium, and three is a small and eight is a large, maybe
13 is an extra large, and I don't go much beyond that, right? You can use the
entire sequence, that's fine. But don't get too granular. Remember, humans are
not really good at doing this kind of estimation. So we want to keep it
abstract. So how do I make it abstract? Well, you have to agree what medium
means, right? Since the story points are relative, you all agree on okay, this
is medium. So we say mediums of five. And this is what a five story is. And then
we could take the other stories and then we could say, evaluate from there. Is
this one smaller than that story? Is it larger than that story is the same size
as that story. So here's how I learned story points. If you're asked, "How tall
are these buildings?" You might try to count the floors. Every floor is about
20-25 feet, little back of the napkin, but what if I said to you, "Hey, this
story, this building is a five. How big is the building next to it, just to the
left of it?" You say, "Well, that one's probably a three. If that one's a five,
that one's a three? Well, how about the one to the right of it that's a little
bit taller, maybe that one's an eight. And then maybe the largest one is a 13."
It's just relative sizes, you're just saying if this story is medium, or this
story is small, is the other story bigger? Is larger? And so that's how I
learned to do and to kind of rationalize what are story points, it's just
relative.  They're all relative to something the team does. So, what should be
the size of a story? Well, the story should be small, relatively small,
hopefully something I could do in a couple of days, right. You don't want to
make them too big. You don't want to make them drag on and on and on. So you
want to keep those stories small, and estimate things that are, that you can
hopefully get done in just a few days, right? Large stories should be broken
down into smaller ones. So if you have a story, you say, "This is a 21." And you
decide, "Wow, that is super duper extra large that isn't going to fit in a
sprint, then that has to get broken down to smaller stories." And maybe some of
it gets done this sprint some of it gets done next sprint and maybe we create an
epic to track the fact that it's gonna take multiple Sprints. Now let's talk
about some anti patterns, because it's really important that you understand
these. The first anti-pattern is evaluating stories on wall clock time. I see
this happen all the time, and it relates back to our organizational
anti-patterns. So I get a Scrum master, who didn't start out as a Scrum master.
They started out as a project manager, and they love their Gantt charts, and
what's a Gantt chart? It's walk clock time it's dates on a calendar and so they
can only think in dates on a calendar. And I have seen Scrum masters who are
former project managers tell the team, "A one is one day, a three is three days,
a five is five days..." ...or five hours or 12 hours or whatever. That is the
ultimate wrong thing to do. It is not about wall clock time, it is just relative
size, right?  So a medium might take me two to three days, maybe sometimes four
days, a small might take me a day less than a day. You just agree on kind of a
fuzziness about this. But never ever, ever, never tell your team that that thing
of Fibonacci sequence those story points, they are days or they are weeks. That,
that is an anti pattern. Humans are really bad at estimating wall clock time.
Just don't do it. In this video, you learn that story points are a metric used
to estimate difficulty of implementing a given user story. Story points or
relative like t shirt sizes. You must agree on what average means. And you
should never equate story points with wall clock time.