After watching this video, you'll be able to describe a sprint retrospective,
explain who to invite to a sprint retrospective meeting, and describe how to
conduct a sprint retrospective meeting. So, one of the last meetings is the
sprint retrospective. This is a meeting to reflect on the sprint. Very, very
critical for, uh, continuously improving is, that we look back on what we did.
So, it measures the health of the process, measures the health of the team, and
the development team must be able to speak freely, right? They have to be
comfortable in this meeting, that they could talk about anything that, you know,
they want to talk about and discuss as they reflect on the sprint. And so, who
should attend this meeting? Well, the scrum master should be there and the
development team. I do not invite the product owner to the sprint retrospective.
And the reason I don't invite the product owner is because I want the
development team to be able to speak freely. I want to be able to say, hey, that
product owner is driving us too hard, right? I want them to be able to... them
and the scrum master, to have frank and honest conversations about how are
things going? Now you might have a product owner where you can tell them,
"You're driving us too hard." Okay, then invite the product owner, but you don't
want people to feel intimidated while I was really going to tell you what went
wrong but I didn't want the product owner to think any less of me. You don't
want that to happen, so trust me on this one. Sprint retrospective, scrum
master, the rest of the team, without the product owner.  And let's really dig
into the health of the team. And so, there are three questions again, uh, that
get asked in this team to reflect on the sprint. The first one is what did we do
well, right? What should we keep doing? What went really good? You know, uh, and
keep doing more of that. And then what did not go well, right? What should we
stop doing? And have everybody speak freely about, you know, what did not go
well and what they'd like to not have to do next time. And then, most
importantly, what should we do to change, right? What do you want to change for
the next time? Now, there might be a lot of changes, uh, it's the scrum master's
job to kind of document those changes and then make sure that something gets
changed. You don't have to change all of them. It may be impossible to get them
all done, but make sure something gets addressed, uh, for the next sprint so
that the team knows that it's just not a gripe session, right? That things are
actually happening, people are really listening, people really care about how
they feel, and they're trying to improve. So, the goal here is improvement. It's
critical to have a healthy team to be able to reflect and be able to talk about
what went right, what went wrong, what should we do differently, and the scrum
master must ensure, right, that changes are, you know, as a result of feedback
changes are made, right? People want to feel that that things are getting better
as a result of having these meetings, otherwise, there's no sense in having the
meeting. And the goal is just to improve for the next sprint. What can we do
better for next time? There's always room for change. What can we do better the
next time? In this video, you learned that a sprint retrospective is a time to
reflect on how the sprint went, the development team must feel comfortable to
speak freely, and the three questions are answered on what went right or wrong.
The sprint retrospective must result in changes to improve the next sprint.