[MUSIC] After watching this video, you'll be able to describe what happens in
the daily stand-up meeting. Discuss the importance of time boxing the meeting to
15 minutes. Explain what to do with topics raised at the meeting. And conduct a
daily stand-up meeting. In the steps in the scrum process we've gone all the way
through to the daily scrum or the daily stand-up. So now we're learning about
the daily stand-up meeting, this should happen in the same place and time every
day. It's important that people know where is the meeting today, right, usually
it's the same place and time every day. And then sometimes it's called the daily
scrum, I've heard it called both daily scrum, daily stand-up. Maybe daily scrum,
scrum is kind of the whole process, so I like using the term daily stand-up.
Each member briefly discusses what they're working on, right, they report on
their work, and this is a meeting for each other, for the team to get up to date
on who's working on what, is anybody stuck. Now it's called a stand-up because
you're supposed to stand up, nobody should be sitting down. This is a 15 minute
time box meeting, very, very critical that it only takes 15 minutes, one of the
ways of ensuring that is to have everybody stand up, right. Usually they'll
stand in a circle and just go around and and discuss, so that's why it's called
the stand-up meeting. Now it's not a project status, this is really critical,
I've seen these devolve with the project. It's not a status meeting, it's a
meeting for all of the development team, right, the software engineers, the
testers, anybody on the team to understand who's working on what, and what are
we going to get done today, and can I help anybody, so 15 minutes, answer some
simple questions. And so who should attend? Well the scrum master should attend,
the scrum master is someone who is helping the team be Agile. If you have an
advanced team you might say they show up without the scrum master, but the scrum
master is critical because if anyone's blocked I want the scrum master to
unblock them so I always have the scrum master attend the daily stand-up. And
then of course the development team, right, everybody on the scrum team attends
the stand-up. Now the product owner is optional, I've had product owners show up
some days, not show up others. If they do show up they are not to speak unless
spoken to, this is not a status meeting for the product owner, this is really,
really critical. And I see how these things devolve, right, into daily status
meetings, it's not a status meeting. So the product owner can show up, if they
can be helpful in answering a question fine, they don't get to ask questions,
they don't get to drill the team, that is not what this meeting is for. They can
have their own status meeting if they want to do that, that's not what the
stand-up is for, the stand-up is for the development team, product owner is
optional. So what are these questions that everyone asks? So each member answers
these three questions in turn. What did I get done yesterday? What am I going to
work on today? And are there any blockers, are there any impediments in my way?
So everyone knows what I've been working on, I worked on something yesterday, I
plan to continue it today, I might get finished tomorrow, I'm going to plan to
continue today. Or I worked on this yesterday, I'm going to pick up a new story
today, nothing is blocking me or something is blocking me. Very, very important,
impediments and blockers, if one of the team members is being blocked the scrum
master has nothing more important than to unblock them, right, critically
important that you keep the team moving forward. And so that's why the scrum
master needs to be at this meeting, so that if anybody is blocked they can go
deal with it while they do some productive, like the team members, do more
productive work taking another story off the backlog. Yeah, so developers who
are blocked take the next story off the backlog and start working on it while
you're blocked. Unless you're going to get unblocked in an hour or two then
maybe go work on some other work, but if the blocker is going to be around for a
while, start working on the next story. So, let's talk about tabled topics. And
this is why I see these meetings running over the 15 minute time box, anything
that comes up that is not part of the three questions should be tabled, right,
and sometimes we say we put that in the parking lot. So it's very, very
important that the scrum master write it down so we don't forget we don't want
to lose track of it, we're not trying to be rude, but we want to get through
this meeting in 15 minutes reporting on those three questions. And then if
anybody is interested in the tabled topics we then do those after the meeting.
So I'll have the 15 minute scrum meeting and then say okay, the following topics
came up, anybody who is interested in discussing them please stay, everybody
else go have a productive day. And then you can talk about those topics, maybe
somebody needed help and someone else says, "I know how to do that I can tell
you how." Tell them after the meeting. In this video, you learned that the daily
stand-up occurs every day for 15 minutes. Each person should be prepared to
answer the three stand-up questions. The daily stand-up is not a status meeting.
Topics not related to the stand-up should be addressed after the meeting.
[MUSIC]