[MUSIC] After watching this video, you'll be able to describe the difference
between vanity metrics and actionable metrics. Describe the top four actionable
metrics and explain how metrics can be used to improve the team's performance.
Having metrics is critically important, because you can't improve what you can't
measure. You have to be able to measure how you're doing, you can't just go by
gut feel. The high performing teams are measuring how they're doing and they're
reacting to those measurements and they're making sure that those are going in
the right direction. And so they take baselines, they set goals and then they
measure against those goals. This is critically, critically important for the
health of your team. So beware of vanity metrics. We got 10,000 hits to our
website. Let's have a pizza party. What does 10,000 hits mean? What does it
really mean? Did somebody nervously click 10,000 times? Did 10,000 people click
once and go away? You don't know, you have no idea. You don't know what drove
them to the website and you don't know what action to take next. How do I get
more clicks? I don't know, clicks or hits to the website is just a vanity
metric. You want to be working on actionable metrics. So maybe you're doing some
A/B split-testing, right? Where you've got two versions of something, you don't
know how the customers are going to like it. And so you traffic shape 50% to one
customer set, 50 to another. And then you measure, right? Did the customers who
saw the new feature, did they react the way we want them to do? We get the
behavior out of them, and if we did, then let's do more of that behavior. And if
they didn't, then let's not do more of that behavior, right? Let's do less. So
it's critical that you take a baseline, whatever that baseline is, let's say it
currently requires six teams, 10 hours to make it to a deployment. And you want
to decrease that or it costs so much, money to do a release, whatever it is.
However you have the baseline, you pick something that you want to improve on
and then you measure it the way it is today, set that baseline and then you set
yourself a goal. Maybe you want to reduce from 10 hours to two hours and you
think about how can I do that? Right?  And then you measure it? Or are we
getting closer? You're not going to get it the first time, right? This is going
to be over a series of sprints, are we getting faster? Are we getting better? Is
it costing us less? Are we finding more bugs in production? I'm sorry, more bugs
in testing, right? You don't want to find more bugs in production. Are we
picking up more bugs in testing than we do in production? Right?  Which is going
to cost us less money and doing break fix. So whatever that is, you want to set
a goal and measure against it. The top four actionable metrics that people use
our mean lead time, right? How long does it take to get from an idea, to get
something delivered to the customer? Release frequency, how often can you
release? It doesn't have to be any faster than you need to release. If you only
need to release once a week, that's fine. But can you release when you need to
release something new to the customer and then of course, what is your change
failure rate? Right.  Are you releasing stuff that's breaking, right? So that's
critically important as well. And then mean time to recovery, it used to be mean
time to failure, right? We make sure we never fail, make sure it never goes
down. Well, It's going to go down, how fast can you recover from it going down
as the question. And if it's quick enough and the customer doesn't even notice,
that is the best of all. So, mean time to recovery is really what people are
measuring as an actionable metric today. So, let's look at some example metrics,
right? Reduce time to market for new features, right? How fast does it take me
to get a new feature out there? Does it take me days? Weeks? Months? Increasing
the overall availability of the product, right? Maybe you want to make something
a higher availability, reducing the time it takes to deploy release. That's
that's a common one, right? You want to be able to get releases out quicker.
Increasing the percentage of defects detected and testing before a production
release, because that is going to save you money in the long run. And then
providing performance and user feedback to the team in a timely manner, right?
Do I have fast feedback loops? Can I get feedback from the customer to my team?
Maybe I want to get there quicker, I don't want to take so long. Whatever those
metrics are, you want to pick one of them and then improve on it. In this video,
you learn that high performing teams use metrics to continuously improve. It's
important to be sure that the metrics you use are actionable. It's important to
take a baseline before trying to measure change. And the top four actionable
metrics can be used to improve your team's overall performance. [MUSIC]