After watching this video, you'll be able to articulate why upfront planning
leads to missed deadlines and summarize why iterative planning leads to greater
accuracy. Douglas Adams famously once said, "I love deadlines. I love the
whooshing sound they make as they fly by. Whoosh! There goes another deadline."
This happens to us all the time, we put a stake in the ground, and we miss it.
The question is, why does this happen? But more importantly, what can we do to
avoid it? I like to call this navigating the unknown, right? So if I told you
that you need to navigate across this field of penguins, you know, you might
look down at the bottom there and say, "Well, I can I can kind of put my foot
here and and maybe step in and step around." But then when you get to the
middle, like how do you plot a course to the other side? Oh, and by the way, the
penguins are going to keep moving as you're moving through them a lot like
software development, where the operating system is getting patched and patched.
And packages are getting patched. And you know, things keep moving, moving, but
you know that as you kind of tiptoe into the middle of those penguins and you
look down, it's going to look a lot like it did at the beginning, when you,
because you know more, you're at a different vantage point. And that's the whole
idea, right, from this vantage point, you can probably continue to plot along.
And as you get closer, you'll have the next vantage point where you can plot
along. So the message here is don't decide everything at the point you know the
least. We do this all the time. At the beginning of project, we know practically
nothing, we know very little about the project. And that's when we do all of our
planning, right, as if we can figure out what's going to happen towards the end.
So stop doing that, right? That's what Agile is all about, iterative planning.
Don't decide everything in the beginning, when you know the least. what you want
to do is just plan for what you know and then as you move along, right, you
decide you know more you adjust the plan. So your estimates are going to be more
accurate this way. Because you know, if somebody asks you what are you gonna be
doing three months from now? Tell them, "Well, I can tell you that we may be 50%
accuracy, right? But I can tell you with almost 100% accuracy, what I'm going to
do two weeks from now, right and two weeks after that." So the idea here is
don't try to be omnipotent, because you're not right. Don't try to plan
everything up front. You want to plan as you go and as you learn more than you
could add more to the plan and get greater and greater estimates at where you
are and how long it's going to take for you to get there. In this video, you
learned that planning everything at the beginning of the project can lead to
missed deadlines, and iterative planning allows for course corrections and more
accurate estimates.